# kustomize 3.0.0

This release is [v2.1.0](v2.1.0.md), with some
post v2.1.0 bugs fixed and a `v3` in Go package
paths.

The `v3` puts plugin developers (both _Go_ plugin
authors and _exec_ plugin authors who happen to
use Go) on a solid footing.


### Go Module implications

[doc]: https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/Modules#releasing-modules-v2-or-higher

Per the Go modules [doc], a release that's already
tagged v2 or higher should increment the major
version when performing their first Go
module-based release.

This advice applies to kustomize, since it was
already at major version 2 when switching to Go
modules.

[versioning policy]: versioningPolicy.md

The other reason for `v3` is that the `go` tool
assumes Go modules obey semantic versioning, which
means packages used in v2.1 should have the same
API as packages in v2.0.

This is not the case in kustomize.  Historically,
kustomize's [versioning policy] has only addressed
the command line tool's behavior and the fields in
a kustomization file.  The underlying packages
were an implementation detail, avaiable for use at
the author's risk.

With the introduction of plugins, the packages -
in particular `loader` and `resmap` - become part
of an API formally exposed to plugin authors, so
the API changes must be respected.

Over time, _informed by package use_, the API
surface should shrink, but such shrinkage will
require a major version increment.





